# Research impact opportunities through interactive Continued Professional Development resources

## Calum Webb

**Overview**

The social work teaching team is currently reviewing how it can use interactive resources to support social work teaching and the continued professional development programme. Social Workers at all levels, and other health and social care practitioners, are expected to complete CPD regularly to inform and update their practice according to the latest research. We are developing an online library of interactive resources that comply with the regulator, [Social Work England (SWE)'s, CPD guidance](https://www.socialworkengland.org.uk/media/3247/cpd-guidance-july-2020.pdf). While practitioners are not required to submit records of their CPD to SWE, they are encouraged to do so, which creates a direct link between the resources used and their impact on health and social care services in regards to changes in practice, which may be desirable for impact statements. There are no prescriptions on what CPD content should be about, as long as practitioners are able to translate it into informed practice.

Interactive resources are intended to bridge the gap between traditional academic outputs (journal articles, book chapters) and evidence-informed practice and reflection. For this reason, they are not direct replications of outputs. They cover the substantive topic in accessible language, with points at which videos, interactive elements, activities such as case studies or reflective writing, and discussions are embedded. To see an example, go to [scslibrary.calumwebb.uk](http://scslibrary.calumwebb.uk) to view the prototype. They can be used alone, or in blended learning formats. The idea is that they can be used in many different and multiple ways across courses, as long as learners do not find themselves repeating the same resource. The library is also designed to be open-access, so can be used internationally and promoted as such along with your other research outputs. The interactive resources also contain meta-data used by Google Scholar, and can be easily found through your account by people looking to engage with your research. 

The idea is still currently a proposal, and we will be running a focus group on the initial resource for feedback on the design and structure of the library and content. Initially, I am happy to assist in translating existing outputs into CPD-compliant interactive resources to build up the library and support the social work team's teaching workload, though anyone interested in this would have to provide whatever original content they can reasonably commit to, including at least one recorded clip/video in a lecture format (10-20 minutes long). Interactive resources do not have to be as long as the example resource, as long as they cover enough substantive information, but as a general rule they should be between 2,000 and 6,000 words - longer than a blog, but shorter than most journal articles. 

We hope that this could be a flexible resource for teaching and impact, and the kind of thing that could make a nice addition to any dissemination and impact plans on bids in development. Please email c.j.webb@sheffield.ac.uk if you have any questions, ideas, or concerns.

The entire library so far has been managed and developed by me using open-source programming languages and packages, and is hosted on my web space rather than the university's. I would like the policy to be that all intellectual property etc. resides with the lead author of each resource and as such, resources can be removed at will through me. The intention of this is that in the event of concerns that interactive resources may be used to supplant teaching in unwanted ways, or need to be taken down as part of strike action, and so on, this can be quickly and easily done. I'd appreciate any support from union reps or other interested and informed parties in how they would manage agreeing this with the department. 